Michael Fraser
January 15, 2014

Command-Crib-Sheet
 
traceroute, tcpdump, wget, curl, ssh, scp, telnet, 
cut, paste, tail, vi, emacs, nano, pico, ed, uptime, 
date, env, export, time, uname, top, kill, killall, 
du, df, hexdump, dd, od, which, locate, mount, 
umount, chgrp, chown, users, groups, netstat, arp, 
nc, echo, find, grep, whoami, open, who, wc, sort, 
sed, awk, rev, dig, nslookup, diff, patch, nice, 
make, tar, split, man, crontab, xargs, screen, 
sudo, script, ssh-keygen, clear 


1) cd: change directory - changes the directory to the specified path
example: cd ~   : changes the current directory of the terminal to the home location.


2) ls: lists directory contents
example: ls - lists the files and folders within the current directory


3) history: shows the command history of the terminal
example: history - lists out the previously ran commands


4) more: a command used for paging one screenful of text at a time
example: history | more - lists out the previously ran commands while filtering the output to a single page of text at a time


5) sudo: allows the user to execute a command as the superuser (or another user if settings are modified)
example: sudo yum update - evokes administrator access to allow for the updating of the system


6) date: lists the system date and time
example: date - lists the date and time. (Example output: Wed Jan 15 19:55:56 PST 2014 )


7) mkdir: make directory - makes a directory or directories (folder/folders) if they do not exist
example: mkdir CMSI387 - makes a folder/directory entitled CMSI387


8) rmdir: remove directory - removes a specified directory or directories, if they exist and are empty
example: rmdir project - removes an empty directory entitled project from the current directory


9) top: displays the linux processes that are running
example: top - displays a list of linux processes


10) clear: clears the current terminal window
example: clear - clears the current terminal window


11) ps: displays information about active processes
example: ps - example output:
                      PID TTY          TIME CMD
                    10932 pts/0    00:00:00 bash
                    11185 pts/0    00:00:00 ps

12) pwd: print working directory - prints the full filename of the current directory
example: pwd - example output: /home/michael/Documents/CMSI387/homework/shell-guide


13) cp: copy - copies specified files or folders
example: cp README CMSI387/  - copies the file 'README' to the folder 'CMSI387'


14) mv: move - moves specified files or folders to a specified location
example: mv README CMSI387/  - moves the 'README' file from its current directory to the 'CMSI387' directory


15) df: reports file system disk space usage, it displays the amount of disk space available on the file system containing each file name argument. Default shows the space available on the currently mounted file system.
example: df - shows the space available on the currently mounted file system


16) sh :  runs a command interpreter shell that reads lines from a file or terminal and interprets them.
example: sh - runs the command interpreter shell


17) ln: makes a link between files. the link points back to an original file.
example: ln -s sample.txt link_to_sample.txt - makes a symbolic link called 'link_to_sample.txt' that points towards 'sample.txt'


18) cat: used to concatenate files and print on the standard output
example: cat > sample.txt
Hello, this is an example using cat.
It continues until given the signal to stop.
Yay.
<control-d>
 - Prints the text provided into the text file sample.txt.
 
 
19) less: according to the man pages, it is the "opposite of more." It then defines it as being very similar to the more command, but says it has more features. 


20) ping - sends an ICMP echo request to a specified network host and continues to run until terminated
example: ping localhost - requests an echo from the localhost repeatedly. 
output: PING localhost (127.0.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_req=1 ttl=64 time=0.029 ms

